DOC-1160 - RS API: Document v1 /actions/ API request. (#1885)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/references/rest-api/requests/actions.md

---
Title: Actions requests
linkTitle: actions
description: Actions requests
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: /rs/references/rest-api/actions
         /rs/references/rest-api/actions.md
         /rs/references/restapi/actions
         /rs/references/restapi/actions.md
         /rs/references/rest_api/actions
         /rs/references/rest_api/actions.md
---

| Method | Path | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| [GET](#get-all-actions) | `/v1/actions` | Get all actions |
| [GET](#get-action) | `/v1/actions/{uid}` | Get a single action |

## Get all actions {#get-all-actions}

```
GET /v1/actions
```

> Get the status of all currently executing, queued, or completed actions on all entities (clusters, nodes, and databases). This API is used to track every long-lived API request which returns either a `task_id` or an `action_uid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get the status of all actions (executing, queued, or completed) on all entities (clusters, nodes, and databases). This API tracks long-lived API requests return either a `task_id` or an `action_uid`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Get the status of all actions (executing, queued, or completed) on all entities (clusters, nodes, and databases). This API tracks long-lived API requests that return either a `task_id` or an `action_uid`.
```
Made a minor change to the second sentence here - let me know what you think.

#### Required permissions

| Permission name |
|-----------------|
| [view_status_of_cluster_action]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/permissions#view_status_of_cluster_action">}}) |

### Request {#get-all-request}

#### Example HTTP request

```
GET /actions
```

### Response {#get-all-response}

> Returns a JSON array of [action objects]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/action">}}) and an array of [state-machine objects]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/state-machine">}}). Regardless of an action’s source, each action in the response contains the following attributes: `name`, `action_uid`, `status` and `progress`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a line break and a missing comma.
```suggestion
Returns a JSON array of [action objects]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/action">}}) and an array of [state-machine objects]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/state-machine">}}).

Regardless of an action’s source, each action in the response contains the following attributes: `name`, `action_uid`, `status`, and `progress`.
```

#### Example JSON body

```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_uid": "159ca2f8-7bf3-4cda-97e8-4eb560665c28",
      "name": "retry_bdb",
      "node_uid": "2",
      "progress": "100",
      "status": "completed",
      "task_id": "159ca2f8-7bf3-4cda-97e8-4eb560665c28"
    },
    {
      "action_uid": "661697c5-c747-41bd-ab81-ffc8fd13c494",
      "name": "retry_bdb",
      "node_uid": "1",
      "progress": "100",
      "status": "completed",
      "task_id": "661697c5-c747-41bd-ab81-ffc8fd13c494"
    }
  ],
  "state-machines": [
    {
      "action_uid": "a10586b1-60bc-428e-9bc6-392eb5f0d8ae",
      "heartbeat": 1650378874,
      "name": "SMCreateBDB",
      "object_name": "bdb:1",
      "progress": 100,
      "status": "completed"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Status codes {#get-all-status-codes}

| Code | Description |
|------|-------------|

> | [200 OK](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.2.1) | No error, response provides info about an ongoing action. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [200 OK](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.2.1) | No error, response provides info about an ongoing action |
```

> | [404 Not Found](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.4.5) | Action does not exist (i.e. not currently running and no available status of last run). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [404 Not Found](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.4.5) | Action does not exist (i.e. not currently running and no available status of last run).|
```

## Get a specific action {#get-action}

```
GET /v1/actions/{uid}
```

Get the status of a currently executing, queued, or completed action.

#### Required permissions

| Permission name |
|-----------------|
| [view_status_of_cluster_action]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/permissions#view_status_of_cluster_action">}}) |

### Request {#get-request}

#### Example HTTP request

```
GET /actions/{uid}
```

#### URL parameters

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|

> | uid | string | The action_uid to check. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| uid | string | The action_uid to check |
```

### Response {#get-response}

Returns an [action object]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/action">}}).

> Regardless of an action’s source, each action contains the following attributes: `name`, `action_uid`, `status` and `progress`.

Author: ```suggestion
Regardless of an action’s source, each action contains the following attributes: `name`, `action_uid`, `status`, and `progress`.
```

> Regardless of an action’s source, each action contains the following attributes: `name`, `action_uid`, `status` and `progress`.

Reviewer 3: add , before _and_

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/RedisLabs/redislabs-docs/pull/1885/commits/1b1375a7d0f8a5cd3fa04b826f2752832f91e800

#### Example JSON body

```json
{
  "action_uid": "159ca2f8-7bf3-4cda-97e8-4eb560665c28",
  "name": "retry_bdb",
  "node_uid": "2",
  "progress": "100",
  "status": "completed",
  "task_id": "159ca2f8-7bf3-4cda-97e8-4eb560665c28"
}
```

### Status codes {#get-status-codes}

| Code | Description |
|------|-------------|

> | [200 OK](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.2.1) | No error, response provides info about an ongoing action. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [200 OK](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.2.1) | No error, response provides info about an ongoing action |
```

> | [404 Not Found](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.4.5) | Action does not exist (i.e. not currently running and no available status of last run). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [404 Not Found](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.4.5) | Action does not exist (i.e. not currently running and no available status of last run) |
```
